# Roomates
Finding residence as a student in a big city can be cumbersome due to low housing supply and high prices. For that reason, students often prefer to live in shared apartments. Shared apartments make living more affordable and one quickly gets to know new people. However, living together with other people comes with the challenge of managing shared expenses. One-time purchases, such as frying pans or furniture, are pricy enough to split up the payment right away. Everyday purchases, like cleaning utensils or toilet paper, are less pricy and it is almost too much work to ask your roommates for a few pennies. But these small everyday purchases will eventually sum up to substantial amounts, but at that point nobody knows how much he or she has paid for shared expenses.

Our application will help people who live together to manage their shared expenses. It is centered around the expenses of everyone living in the household. That means, it keeps track of who paid how much and offers functionality to easily compensate each other financially. Users create an account and then form groups. A group of users would be people living together in one household. Furthermore, users can notify a group about what needs to be bought, i.e. a shopping list. A user can then say, that he or she will buy the required item. Once the item is bought, the user adds the price to the respective item so the application can count the expense towards the financial balance of everyone. The key functionality therefore is managing the financial compensation between roommates and simplifying communication about required items.

Deploying a mobile application for Android seems most appropriate for our scenario. In addition, a backend is required to store the financial balance and to exchange the purchases and shopping list items between roommates. We expect the main user base to be students living in shared apartments, however every other group of people that have shared expenses could make use of our application.
